e e
well good
afternoon hopefully this audio
will coming through
now okay I hear myself now so
should be okay I know some of you are
going to be wanting me to uh Pump Up the
Volume but uh as you can see I just did
as I normally do and for whatever reason
YouTube likes to mess around with
me with my audio so they don't want you
to
know they don't want you to know the
secrets okay that's what it is don't
tell nobody everything I tell you today
just keep it to yourself okay it's a
secret
all right so anyway um today will be a
rather brief one notice I didn't say
short okay it's going to be a brief one
uh meaning that I'm just going to cover
some salium points uh refer to some
things in terms of processes and
protocols for the afternoon session and
I'll stay with you probably till around
3:00 okay so we'll we'll aim to break
away at
3:00 all right so U if you recall the
last two live streams I've had
a casual in introduction kind of like
warming up to the idea of just relaxing
when you're watching price and then the
second one I gave you very specific
things to look for what does it look
like on the chart
and now this one we're going to talk
about if you're going to be trading the
afternoon um I'm full full disclosure
I'm trying to press my son Caleb into
the morning session okay so most of this
mentorship is going to lean heavily on
the 7 o'clock in the morning to 11
o'clock in the morning New York local
time okay so inside that 4our window I'm
going to leave it up to him to determine
how his body behaves and you know how he
feels in those early hours you does he
want to be trading as early as 7 o'clock
as a start time or 8:00 or is he just
going to Simply wait for the opening
bell at 9:30 and use that 9:00 to 11:00
2hour window there so that part
he's being afforded that uh that
decision but as the
dad uh exercising my dominance and
Authority I'm assuming that uh everyone
understands that this stuff will work in
the afternoon too and I'm going to give
you those rules but these are not for
him okay so Caleb this is not for you
but it's for the sake of completeness
okay like I'll show you um how to do it
in the London session as well we'll do
it you know over live data as well but
for the afternoon session
um sometimes when you look at the
economic
calendar uh there is an absence of any
significant medium or high impact news
events and what do I mean by that if you
go to like forexfactory.com or Econo day
uh they they give a really good
breakdown of every single calendar day
and what time specific Market drivers
come out I means some a
speech um a market data release like a
report um think like PMI CPI you know
those types of
things when we have a day there that has
an absence of any news drivers in the
morning uh that tends to be a rather
lackluster rangy type false breakout and
and then pull back down into the
previous day range type of day or
reverse if it's it's trying to move
higher so I try
to look for reasons to anticipate an
afternoon move because the morning
session can tend to be a little bit
more um it Demands a lot more experience
let's put it that way because you can
you can get caught offside you can think
you see something that's there trade it
and then it reverses and goes the other
direction or goes into a consolidation
if you notice on today's calendar and
I'm going to leave this up for you as
your own little homework assignment it's
it's not that challenging I promise most
of you are aware of if you're a student
if you go to forexfactory.com and you
pull up today's calendar you'll see that
there is a bond auction today at 1 pm
eastern time and I'm going to talk a
little bit how to use that how to trade
it I've never taught my students that um
but it's something that um it's not a
terribly
volatile report it's not like it's not
something that you know you're going to
burn the house down with but it is
absolutely something that you
can trade it does give a little bit of
volatility it does give you you know a
little type
of momentum to work with and if you have
a little bit of a narrative and I'll
talk about that in a
moment you can find some setups okay and
I I watched the piece by another
YouTuber Kimmel um very interesting
video U I found it funny um but I left
the comment on here so that way you know
it's really me I See's a fake okay he's
a fraud hard
pass
anyway all of the YouTubers that use me
as a way to like P pump themselves up um
I'm I'm causing
purpose
purposeful resistance for you okay um I
don't mind you using my content but I
don't like using me as a springboard
that that that type of stuff um so if
you have something you've been doing on
your own with the things I've taught
then hey I got all the respect for that
but if you're just trying to teach and
you're not doing anything with it uh
Kimmel's proven he's made money with the
stuff I've taught so I got no problem
with it um but the main thing is I don't
want any of you especially if you're a
new student here don't look at me as a
hero don't look at me as your Guru don't
look at me as your master okay um you're
not here to worship me you're not here
to lift me up or promote me or anything
like that you're here just to learn
that's it that's all it is that's the
economy here you put it in a time I
share what I'm willing to share and then
you put it to work if it works for you
great if it doesn't there's plenty of
other people out there to learn from
okay I'm not going to ask you for a
Paypal payment I'm not going to ask you
for a credit card payment I'm not going
to ask you for a what's up app pay
nothing it's all 100% for
free but one of his statements in there
he opens up his video with and a lot of
people have said this that there is no
guidance there's no direction there's no
what to do and I agree I agree to some
respect if you refer back to when I was
teaching on baby Pips because it was
meant to be like that I wanted to see if
I left some breadcrumbs could I create
this test tube response of other other
individuals watching what I was doing
could they had the same result that I'd
had and come to the conclusion of what I
see in price could they do it and no has
ever done it even still today with even
all the students I have no one's ever
been able to do that
so U when I started doing
mentorship um I started doing broad
brush Concepts and protocols what to
look for where is the focus where should
your focus be okay and it started with
time of day London session London open
and then New York open London close PM
session for the the American markets
like the indices and and
such and then I went into teaching very
specific things but they're tucked
inside of all of the long winded dry
commentary that's where I tucked it in I
have taught how to trade very specific
do this do this do this do this do this
okay and the reason why it doesn't feel
like it was like that because you all
want me and I had it in the previous
video here um in part two of this
mentorship there's a lot of people
saying you talk too much you could you
could just tell us how to do in 5
minutes I'm not watching your next video
good but I know you're here watching
this one
too the the main takeaway is for you to
number one understand that there has to
be some reason for the setup to be there
okay and majority of your time as a
Trader is going to be spent waiting for
that very thing to occur now that's not
to say that the market isn't moving all
the time it absolutely
is but just because it's moving and
gyrating doesn't mean that you're
supposed to be in that right now move
that right now move may be completely
diametrically opposed to what you are
trying to do for your trade because your
trade may spend outside the realm of the
next 20 minutes or the next hour or
today's entire trading session you may
be trying the nail down a trade that
goes for weeks so there's a lot of room
for you to make what it is out taught
your own that way you can take it and
apply it to the marketplace a time frame
a scenario that you're looking for that
meets and fits your personal unique
personal life schedule and the aptitude
that you have using the information I've
taught
so predominantly most of my content is
allowing and affording all of you as
students to find your own mold
your own way of framing these things
okay and and Kimmel yes I do have 81 for
the Joker that left the comment in your
uh thing it's not 84 and it's 81 very
specific PD arrays and they are both
entry mechanisms they are partial
mechanisms and they're take-profit
mechanisms okay um I know sometimes
people like to use reverse psychology
like I'm going to go out there and prove
that I have here's 81 of them I'm not
doing it but I'll teach you one or two
of them extra today just because I want
to do it
but these mechanisms okay these little
things these little quirky little
excuses to get into the trade with a
Precision element that's not linked to
anything where I can say I learned it
from so and so's book or I learned it
from so and so's course
it's something that's in price action
and when you observe it you see it and
you start seeing it a lot and then you
can anticipate it should form when it
does this and it starts doing it and you
do it for 20 30 years you don't need to
be convinced any further of it right
so when we look at times of day like I
said I'm pushing Caleb into the morning
session he may elect to go when he gets
good at the morning session he has to do
that first then he can make the decision
if he wants to go to an afternoon
session or if he wants to trade to
London session but I'm going to force
him and twist his arm basically that he
has to perform in the morning session
that's that's his payment for me
investing my time and energy and pushing
him along he has to do it there so it's
kind of like uh remember the movie Kill
Bill she went to train with uh the
master and he was going to put her
through the ropes the way he wanted her
to go through it well that's what I'm
doing with him okay because he's going
about this the second time around so
he's going have to earn it a little bit
harder so morning session is his Focus
but the afternoon session has its own
characteristics as well and just as much
as the London session has its own
characteristics so if you are just
looking for a way to get in the
marketplace or how to trade and get in
you you can clearly find that on my
YouTube channel it's absolutely easy
Silver Bullet optimal trade entry um
it's it's it's a matter of what is it
you're trying to do and if you go into
the mentorship which is all for free on
this YouTube channel you go into the
playlist you'll see it it's divided by
month I will teach you very specific Els
about short-term trading day trading
swing trading Ultra short-term scalping
and they're very specific elements but
it's assuming that you have already done
the work of looking at all of the broad
brush Concepts and modules that I've
have on this YouTube channel for someone
that's brand new just stepping out and
say I'm going to watch five videos from
ICT today you're not going to walk away
understanding it you're not going to all
it's going to do is give you better
Foundation One More Cog in it and those
pieces come together when you sit down
like I was explaining yesterday and in
the first lecture as well when we're
watching real time action you're not
trying to hold your feet to the flame
and say I have to know what it's going
to do right now it's it's not realistic
for you to have that at the early stages
and you got to give yourself permission
to do that and have that peace of mind
knowing that keep doing what I'm showing
you how to do and it will come by
default it will be a response naturally
because you'll see these things
repeating over and over and over again
and what will be exciting for you is
that you see them occurring at the time
of the day when they should occur
which removes the whole the whole idea
that the markets are ambiguous they're
random and they're in no way shape or
form RI not rigged when they absolutely
Absol are they really really are so
maybe we first saw this uh live stream
when I first first tried to start at
1:45 I noticed I couldn't hear myself
but I I put the screen on so that way
you could see the new day opening Gap
high and low and we're going to talk a
little bit about that because Caleb
that's going to be like a lot of what
you're a aiming for as an underlying
narrative okay so while you may be
aiming for an
intraday okay or intra daily
session relative equal high or relative
equal low the draw to as an objective
for your trade it's going to be linked
to a new day opening Gap and or new week
opening Gap and if this is the first
time you've heard those terms I will
explain what they both are in this one
and what you're going to be doing with
them Caleb okay
so we talked a little bit about how at 7
o' at 8:00 and at 9:00 the immediate 30
minutes after that or each one of those
top of the hour
intervals we want to
anticipate a opposing Direction in the
marketplace so the assumption is you
have already identified after 7 o'clock
in the morning New York o time a
relative equal high or relative equal
low or where price is smooth okay and
then you're anticipating you're not arm
wrestling the market you're not forcing
that it has to go there because you now
see it so therefore it can't do anything
but go there that's not that's not what
you're supposed to be doing either which
is why I taught you in the first two
sessions together is just to relax and
observe you have to observe you have to
sit back and watch what does price do
and record your observations if it means
taking screenshots as price is going and
moving around and it may not be near
anything of any particular importance
like an order block or a fair value Gap
or something like that uh and no Kimmel
an inversion fair value Gap is not just
a fair value Gap there there's two
distinct things going on there but it's
okay it'll be in the book the idea of
you using these intervals as a starting
point a delineation in time so okay now
I'm really focusing it's it's 7 o'clock
in the morning whatever's happened
overnight during London whatever's
happened in the previous trading I'm not
factoring anything in yet I want to see
the design the engineering of liquidity
and what does that mean when price
creates these really smooth areas of
relative equal highs or relative equal
loads after a session change over
meaning at midnight New York local time
that is the beginning of true day that's
the beginning of the real true day in
financial markets so the algorithm likes
refer back to that time and then
everything since that time it'll refer
to for the purposes of liquidity or
inefficiencies outside of that you'll
have things like new week opening Gap
and or New Day opening gap which is what
you see here on the chart new day
opening Gap what that is and let me just
maximize this chart well actually let me
throw it on a one minute chart it'll be
a little bit easier for you to
see it every day except for
Friday the this is for specifically the
index markets okay so while I'm teaching
my son how to trade and make money in
that asset class uh this is
not
um something to lose your mind over it's
really
simple at 5:00 pm again every day except
for
Friday the market closes
at 5:00 pm it's it's just it stops and
it pauses for an hour and then it
resumes at 6 PM Eastern Standard Time if
you take your one minute
chart you don't have to have live data
to do
this it's something that is a
longterm effect on price action it'll
it'll be used for weeks okay and I'll
explain it in a second here is the 459
candle on a one minute chart
my candles that are bullish or green and
my candles that are black or bearish so
the up close candle that is the closing
price where we stopped and it's the last
print for Nasdaq on Tuesday going into
the 5 o' stop and then at 6 o'clock all
you do is simply get in front of your
computer wait a couple minutes right
before six o'clock and wait for the
first print on a one minute chart when
it opens up that opening price you drop
a line segment on it okay okay and what
I do is all I do is I take this little
line thing here horizontal Ray and I
just go and I drop it on the opening
price
and you can annotate it any way you want
okay I know some of you folks that are
on on the other side of the pond if you
will uh you don't like to see our
numerical version of like today's date
for me would be
08074 and for you across the pond you
would probably see that as July 8th and
obviously it causes confusion so I I
generally don't annotate it like this
but for the purpos of not confusing
anyone and for completeness sake um when
you highlight and annotate your chart
you have to do this okay this is the
part if you just put these lines on your
chart and you're going to have about
five of them because you're going to use
the present week or if it's on the
weekend the new one that forms on
Sunday's opening price you annotate that
on your chart and then you'll have four
more prior to that so you're always
going to have like a floating reserve on
your charts of five weeks of new week
and new day I'm sorry for new week
opening gaps five days look back for New
Day opening gaps new week opening gaps
is five weeks so when we have these
levels annotated like this you can you
can call it whatever you want you can
label the way you want but I taught my
students that this would be referred to
as the new day opening Gap High now why
is that it's the new day opening Gap
High because at 7
o' in the morning on Wednesday and yes
that Gap
forms technically on Tuesday evening my
local time in the Eastern uh east coast
of the of North America but that's
really technically a gap or inefficiency
that is attribute to and should be used
for the basis of Wednesday's trading so
it's a little confusing but if you
rewind that and listen to it again it's
pretty straightforward but at 7:00 in
the
morning There's 7 a.m. and if we scrub
this down here you can see that we are
way above that new day opening Gap see
that and since this is the first level
you would come to that makes it what the
new day opening Gap high and then the
next level below it which would be which
whichever is is the
next um reference point you can have a
gap in this case we have a gap that has
gap
down so where we closed here on this
Candlestick there on Tuesday at at 5:00
we open lower see
that now when we drop down to it here
what we have done is we left this
portion between this candle's low or
whatever this one is whichever's
lower that little segment of
inefficiency is still present because
what is it
lacking what's it
missing sside delivery not sside
liquidity cide delivery okay so if you
look at this Candlestick here we opened
and trade it
up so there's nothing passing down into
that candle's
low or I'm sorry the opening price it's
it's not it's not offered yet so when we
annotate our chart like that these these
gaps
okay these gaps will be referred to for
a week now sometimes you'll see they
actually get referred to couple weeks
later still they they'll be sensitive
because they're real algorithmic arrays
where the market will refer back to them
but I'm not going to be able to teach
you every aspect about those things
because to do that opens a Pandora's Box
for me and I'm not going to do it okay
the fact that these exist and once they
get traded to anybody else that looks at
gaps would think okay it fill the Gap
and that's it throw it out the window
it's done it's over kind of like how the
the the myopic view of supply and demand
where they say I need a fresh Zone
everything I serve up as a PD is piping
hot and fresh every single time it
doesn't get stale okay but for the
rule-based idea Trader in you new day
opening Gap this is the part where you
write down your Journal folks or your
notes new day opening gaps have a life
cycle of five days okay you can use them
longer if you want to but for the
teaching purposes when I taught new day
opening Gap first I taught it on Twitter
I introduced it there in Twitter spaces
and I talked about it as a aftera and
made its way into my lectures on the
YouTube
channel they can act like magnets where
draws price back down to them because
these levels these
gaps have real value in them because
there's an absence of any real trading
even when you see them open up initially
here we can see that it opened there it
traded above the previous day's close
does so here and comes back down and
then runs back up stays around in here
runs back up stays around here drops Sol
drops a little bit and leavs a small
portion if you take a
Fibonacci okay if you take a
fib and you drop it on the
lowest open or close if we me let me say
this part first before I get any
further if you look at it from
here I going to zoom in use this little
thing the Jen here zo real tight
here's the closing price on the Tuesday
at 5:00 we opened down here so that's a
lower gap
opening the opposite would be this where
we opened above that closing price so if
we opened up
here then you would draw the same lines
the same way and you you're using this
Ray down here that extends it in
perpetuity it keeps going to the right
it never never stops projecting it to
the right and your an
ations when you annotate them put it on
the middle and to the right and then you
label it real important that you put the
date in it whatever format you want to
use it's that's up to you but that
format or that date rather helps you
organize the level of
importance so what does that mean if you
have a uh new day opening Gap say for I
don't know two months old okay two
months old and we haven't referred back
to it since the day that it formed and
then in that in that instance I would
find it it
important I have a a journal page a
spiral notebook basically and I write
down every single new day opening Gap
high and low and it's midpoint or or
consequent encroachment and I I'll
explain what that is in a second too and
I keep a running log of that and as long
as we're 150 Handles in close proximity
to any one of
them then I personally will look at them
so I'm kind of like showing you my hand
a little bit today
so for you because it's something
probably new to you and you're probably
going to have a whole lot of them on
your chart because you're going to think
that you have to have every single one
of them forever it's
until you know until you run away from
all the ones that you're presently
trading around um you don't want to
clutter your chart up but I like to see
them and in in my journal that has a
spiral
you know page that it's basically a
column and I write down what that market
is and it's usually just the S&P and the
NASDAQ and sometimes the bond market
the the high and the low and the
consequent encroachment and the weak
that it opened up and formed so for
instance this is for Tuesday okay on the
day it formed but is it for Tuesday's
reference no it's for Wednesday's
trading and that's why it's labeled that
way okay so you're going to use the next
day after the 600 p.m. Candlestick so if
you look down at the bottom of the chart
down here it says Tuesday August 6th but
really what we're doing is we're
building a reference point for
Wednesday's trading and for the next
five days so that means this will
overlap into next week five trading days
not five calendar days five trading days
okay if you have a
holiday skip that and add one more day
to it and that's kind of like your life
cycle for New Day opening gaps new week
opening gaps go back with a life cycle
of five weeks so you're always going to
have five weeks of new week opening Gap
and a new week opening Gap is where we
stop trading on
Friday at 5 o'clock and then where we
open up at on the the Sunday at 6 p.m.
and then you mark it the same way here
the only difference is you would say NW
which is new week opening Gap they tend
to be very sensitive still five weeks
back now that's not a it's ended at five
weeks and you can never refer to them
again okay it's just a general rule or
principle that you can start with you're
going to discover that they work six
months nine months still away because
there are actual places where the market
didn't really efficiently trade as I'm
showing you here but if you take the
levels once you have them that have them
on your you want to on trading view you
want to create a
um I don't know what they call
that let me let me let me do this real
quick whatever this is called up here
layout okay you want to create a layout
that has a title that maybe it's new
week opening gaps and on that layout the
only thing you have referenced for the
market that you trade or markets um or
simply just the new week opening
gaps and or you create a layout that has
the only new day opening gaps or new
week opening gaps rather that is sailing
to your market so that way if you're
ever watching price action or if you
start your new trading session today or
tomorrow or tonight whatever you trade
when you when you pop up one of your uh
layouts you'll have the information
right away populated on your chart and
you don't have to have all that stuff on
your chart when you're working with the
chart time frame that you're exercising
or executing on so I'm I'm saying that
for the folks that are working I'm
physically sitting down with you with a
laptop so I don't have all the multiple
charts or can uh screens in front I mean
they're in front of me but they're off
but I'm trying to teach it from a
perspective of using a a single device
like one laptop so that way it helps you
manage your information and not clut
your chart all up but once you have them
on this is how you get the uh other
levels that are important to me
use the low drag it up to the the the
close which is the high or New Day
opening Gap and here is your consequent
encroachment that's the midpoint okay
that's not equilibrium it's consequent
encroachment why is it consequent
encroachment and not equilibrium because
equilibrium is a range that has been
delivered up and down okay think of it
like a trading range this is not a
trading range it's a gap it's a real Gap
so that real Gap
has a missing level of buying and
selling there's really no buying and
selling yet because we stopped trading
on the previous session at 5 o' and then
resume trading here so there's nothing
being offered as a buy or sell no
printed trades until that opening right
there and then it starts trading but
what is it doing it's
delivering uh buy side delivery that
means it's going up so what is it
lacking sells side
delivery if we take this level here and
we
add 75 and 25 0.25
0.75 what that does it grades into equal
quarters the range okay Watch What
Happens look how it stops perfectly
right
there what's the price
18,
04950 it stops exactly right there right
there look at that candles look at that
candle low right there right up here
look at that price right there okay
what's the low of that
candle folks that's [__] perfect okay
perfect you can't improve on that you're
going to tell me buying and selling
pressure stop that right there some
random bunch of jokers out there looking
at goofy stuff that they stopped the
market right
there okay Lookout price gravitates
around the upper quadrant see that see
how it's gravitating around that and it
expands just a little bit let me take
this off as you're probably thinking
this has something to do with any it
doesn't have anything to do with
this let me take this off these are
extensions for like swing targets and
stuff so the last time we talked I was
showing you uh yesterday's live
session that's why that was on there and
if you don't believe me go back and look
at the recording and you'll see those
levels were actually the ones that were
highlighted in my Fib so here we have
the upper
quadrant midpoint or consequent
encroachment consequent encroachment is
the midpoint of any Gap or any
inefficiency okay that means if it's a
Cy that means it's a it's a down close
fair value Gap the midpoint is
consequent encouragment the best shorts
will form at the lower half of that
because you want to see the upper half
left open a midpoint of a bissy which is
an up close fair value app the best
fills for going long are going to form
in the upper half of that you want to
leave the lower half open why because
you want to see it create a breakaway
Gap that that inability to fill in that
area down there and if it rallies that
indicates to you that the algorithm is
really going to start spoiling quickly
and you anticipate large range
expansions holy [__] I'm dropping some
diamonds today aren't I yes I am because
it's 2024 baby and it's about time you
start making some [__] money around
here so this lower quadrant
beautiful
consolidating it trades just outside of
the new day opening Gap and Market
trades down look at the sensitivity on
the upper quadrant you see that see
it look at that it's staying very very
close to the upper
quadrant and then boom we trade down to
consequent crment and then one more time
look where it trades that lower
quadrant does it one more time just to
take the low out but does it come down
and touch the very very low of the new
open Gap formed at Tuesday 6 PM no so
what's it doing now it starts to Rally
higher we have this little segment of
price action here that is
inefficient there's no Trading down
there you know once it formed this low
it starts moving
higher if you have these levels on your
chart even if this was to come down and
touch that low here and then moved out
of it that does not make this high that
midpoint or that low stale or of no
consequence or importance anymore it
it's still meaningful to me for five
days five trading days okay so if this
is for Wednesday this is for your notes
make sure you write this stuff down down
now since this formed on Tuesday for
Wednesday's
trading you have Wednesday's trading
that's day one Thursday's trading that's
day two Friday is day three Monday is
day uh is trading for day four and then
Tuesday so this new day opening Gap is
still valid until Wednesday next week
that's how I would classify it okay so
that way if you have any confusion about
how long they're useful to me or not not
that they're not useful but I love the
sensitivity around them for the next 5
days let's say it that way I think it's
a better way of representing what I
really mean but and truth be told I will
use them nine months in the past if it's
if it's within the narrative I'm
expecting to see price behave around
them and that part is experience so just
just know that what I'm showing you here
is gold and I'm going to show you how to
use it a little bit more specifically
because it's my son that's actually the
audience member I'm aiming for
so we can see how the market leaves that
area yeah there's no
algorithm um here's 7 o'clock here's 8
o'cl here's 9 o' and we were way above
it we're really north of
it when it form those uh opening
intervals so S 8
9 I must have mve that line I
apologize looking at those lines and
they like they don't look uniform and so
here's
seven eight and nine and we were way
above it
so here we are there you go while I was
talking the jaw B it went down and
closed it in okay so if you watched it
at the very beginning the the recording
is still there I'm going to delete the
recording of the first attempt to try to
do the live stream so you'll see this
was actually in the chart beforehand um
but it's not a big deal I mean most of
my stud already know about new day open
gaps anyway but uh the ability to want
to see it gravitate back to them every
single day if you have the last five
like the week you're trading in right
now that's that's one that's one week of
it or one day of it rather and then you
go back the last four trading days so
you have five of them on your chart and
as long as we're in close proximity to
them they're going to be impactful to
your trading and if you're bullish if
there's one above you but there's
several of them below you now this this
right here folks this is the this is
gold dust okay if you have a clustering
of new day opening gaps predominantly
above where the Market's trading at and
maybe there's one you where you're
trading at now around the market or
maybe it's below you where do you think
the Market's more likely to
go oh my goodness
oh my goodness I'm getting
moist it's going to gravitate where the
multitude of inefficiencies existed
because it's going to give the market an
opportunity to go back there again why
because there are people in this
industry that trade with this
information that you're not supposed to
have and it provides that that vehicle
of Entry that mechanism of repricing up
there it has an absolutely nothing to do
with buying and selling pressure as much
as those little goobers that write those
books and sell courses tell you it's not
how it Works folks that's not how it
works and if it breaks your heart God
bless you get over it because this is
what really makes the markets move
around time and price but you have to
have reference points to know how do
these markets Book price because they're
going to use these hidden areas oh
they're not hidden IC everybody knows
about gaps right and look at everybody
else's use of them y it's going to it's
going to be a gap fill and then it
doesn't fill the Gap it runs away and
then the Gap to used later on at some
other time and once it fills once it
fills they're nobody's interested in it
anymore Allah Chris Lori they'll say
there's an inefficiency a buy side U
imbalance as we call it bide imbalance
cide and efficiency he'll call that a
liquidity void that's not a void of
liquidity it offered buy side delivery
there was buyers going on in there
what's it AB what's absent sside
delivery that means moving right back
over top of it and and tamping over top
of that run up in that single candle so
look at it look at this stuff okay he
would say okay that's we're done now
we're done with
that once it filled it in he's done next
setup not me brother not me uh-
uh these things around specific times
they are absolutely useful and will be
used by the
algorithm now think about it if
everybody has the same logic that once a
gap fills
it's over then why would they [__]
work again over and over and over again
every time they trade back to them and
nobody's ever noticed it no one's ever
noticed it I got over 2,000 trading
books okay not one of these Jokers ever
talked about it
ever and the first time I started using
this information to call the Market in
front of family members and friends and
say watch what it's doing right here
look what it's going to do right here I
don't have the level strong on it I'm
telling them this is where it's going to
go so other words I'd had to level here
here and here just in my mind say okay I
know that number that's the one I'm
going to see it trade to and the watchs
their jaw open up like how do you know
that yeah it's good a it is't it good
it's so good well these things are
always there they're never going to hide
it from you folks okay and you're
probably think oh they're going to
change it because you taught it [__]
how are they going to change the
Gap first of all they're not going to be
able to hide the Gap from you if we open
at 6 o' higher than where we closed at
5:00 we have a we have a gap gap opening
it's a higher
Gap okay I don't care I don't care if
it's a up Gap or a down Gap I want to
know what those levels are what are they
the three levels here consequent caching
which is the midpoint the highest high
and the lowest low what's the high
whichever is higher where we stopped at
5 o'clock or where we opened at six
o'clock
it's a very simple process that's not
complicated what's going to be
complicated is is if you're trying to
have a thousand of these things because
it's you know 200 some trading days in a
year you're going to have a lot of them
on your chart and you're going to look
at this and say what the hell am I
supposed to do and the Jokers that are
in the listening audience are going to
say well of course it's going to hit one
of these levels there's so many of them
you're a [__] clown this logic is
very specific just look at the last five
and if there is a clustering if say at
the last five say there's three of them
that are above price at the market price
right now when you are looking at 7:00
and 8:00 and 9:00 anticipating that
engineering of liquidity I'll come into
that I didn't forget but if you know
that you have a series of new day
opening gaps
above chances are they're going to want
to gravitate to that so what would that
do for you as a Trader if you're
anticipating a
short give it a chance in that first 30
minutes to try to reach in that
direction because they might spike it up
there in a a really thin price run to
get up into those old new day opening
gaps then wait for it to break down and
show a market structure or a breaker
okay and or look for an inversion Fair
Bay Gap like I tell you in the part two
of this mentorship how to see them those
are so powerful they are so powerful
that that is one of the bangers as a PD
array if if you if you can sit patiently
I I say this about all my PD R in case
you don't know that but if you could sit
patiently and wait for them to
form they will give you Runners that
just are so good it's like the first
kiss of a
girlfriend the taste of those lips
that's exactly what it's like it's
beautiful it's love it's love loveing a
Candlestick baby and this type of stuff
repeats over and over and over again so
when I spent time teaching what I have
made a real attempt to do is hey your
mind up and your attention to these
critical times and conditions where the
market is more predisposed to behave a
manner that's
one-sided that's what you need as a
Trader you need movement number one you
need to be able to predict that movement
and you need to be able to predict the
movement's direction
unless you're trading options and
there's a way to do that too you don't
need another Direction you can be delta
neutral but that's another time for
another subject matter but in this case
we can see that these things tend to
repeat they tend to repeat every single
day every single week okay so now what's
the difference between a new week
opening Gap and a new day opening Gap
well there's five new day opening gaps
in in the course of a week you only have
one new week opening Gap
so what do you think has more impact on
a swing
trade a new day opening Gap or a new
week opening
Gap a new week opening Gap because
you're you're factoring the imbalance
and inefficiency of a new week opening
on Sunday at 6 PM where they've had a
whole weekend to digest everything and
they use that opening price who's that
those individuals that are in control of
the marketplace I know you don't like to
hear that and I know it pisses you off
cuz I talk in a very condescending tone
and arrogant pricky and all that other
[__] but if you took the time to
investigating things that I'm telling
you you'll see that it's there this
isn't retail buying and selling pressure
it's not large funds buying and selling
pressure that's causing them the turn
because that's not what happens doesn't
matter how much buying and selling
pressure has absolutely no bearing on
it you'll be able to sit down and
predict with a high degree of precision
and accuracy where the Market's going to
gravitate to that's the very first stage
in your development that is not
profitable trading that is not Precision
entries that's not tight stop losses and
lowrisk management it is the first stage
and you have to warm up to that idea of
knowing okay this guy's talking to me he
does talk a lot but the [__] he's saying
and the stuff he's pointing out is
happening all the time so it's worth me
listening to because I'm not talking for
the sake of talking I'm telling you all
the things that's going to arise in your
mind as a fear as a uncertainty as a
doubt these are all things I have
experienced myself and I have millions
of students and they all give me
feedback whether I give a response back
to them or not I take that feedback and
I say okay I can I can use this
information and the next time I talk
about it I'll kind of draw that in the
conversation so
I know pretty much what questions you
have in mind that's why it feels like
I'm reading your mind when I'm talking
about certain things if I'm watching
price action and I'm saying I'm looking
for this or that and then I'll say and
you probably think this this this
because I have heard all those questions
before that's all it is I'm not I'm not
Clairvoyant I don't believe in ESP so as
much as it looks like sometimes I have
it if we have a clustering of new week
opening gaps below the marketplace okay
I'm going to elect to see price
try to gravitate to that that's not a
hard and fast only going short it just
means that if I'm going to look for a
long I'm going to wait and see right
away do they want to drop it down there
in that direction doesn't mean they have
to trade to those group of uh new week
opening gaps or New Day opening gaps
either
or it just is a filter that my
mentorship students don't even know
anything about they're they're grinning
right now because they they're learning
just like you are and when you have
these things recorded in a layout for
your chart you'll be able to see oh yeah
there's a there's a number of new day
opening gaps and a couple new week
opening gaps that are below price and if
you seen we've only worked it one time
in other words like we've seen it here
it went down into this one this is the
first time we passed down into it and
this is the second time we passed down
into it okay if we've only touched the
new week opening gap or a series of new
day opening gaps once they're really
sensitive like they're hot they're going
to be one of the be they're goingon to
see price draw back to them that's just
a guarantee it's gonna happen and
there's very few guarantees in price
there's very very few guarantees in
trading but this is something that
you're going to study and you're going
to see it's what I just said it's the
gospel it absolutely is always there and
that right there cancels out the whole
idea that these markets aren't rigged
because why would it
care why would it care about a gap that
filled weeks ago why why would it do
that unless it's being called as a
reference point through
coding and it's referring back to a
certain span of
time almost
slipped let me slow down it's
a very specific reference of
time that the algorithm will seek and
look back to okay and by having that
look back period and looking at these
reference points in price so you have
time and then price and when you can
identify these things and they they're
never going to be able to hide where
they open the price up in relationship
and in Defence to where we closed it at
5 o'cl can you understand that much if
you're brand new and you're thinking
okay this is probably going to stop
working because it's being taught I
taught this and it's it's it still works
beautifully it's not going to stop
working okay believe me if I believed
any of this stuff was going to stop
working if I taught any of it you would
never know about it okay the things that
I teach they're just very Market generic
they're going to behave this way all the
time because this is the source code
this is exactly what it's going to do
it's always going to do these things
until they tear the markets down
entirely this is what's going to be
there so as long as we can trade markets
these
advantages are going to be available to
you that should excite you it should you
it should give you passion and desire to
spend more time seeking them and
understanding the characteristics around
them and what this does it gives you a
magnetized reference point of where bias
can draw to even before relative equal
highs or lows
form wait a minute slow this down slow
your rooll ICT say that one more time
because I think I just heard you say You
can predict relative equal highs and
lows before the reform yeah you're
[__] right
yep that's exactly what engineering
liquidity
is that's exactly what it is okay so if
you have a predisposed predisposed
um likelihood if it's likely that we're
going to draw down to a new day opening
Gap or we're going to draw down to a
cluster of new day opening gaps that
haven't been traded to or used much or a
new week or new week opening gaps that
are clustering below market price at
what time at what time
ICT at 78 or 9 you're you're referencing
you're trying to get a feel for what is
it what is it likely to do sure there's
going to be volatility sure there's
going to be probably all kinds of
movement around but what was the market
showing us right away well it's got
relative equal Highs but it's also got
relative equal lows from 7 o'clock and 8
o' okay so if we know the new day
opening Gap is down here south of all
that down
here we know that it's probably going to
run these
highs so you as a Trader Caleb you're
going to be thinking all right I know
that this is a gravitational pull on
price the algorithm is going to want to
revisit this
okay if I noticed that there's relative
equal highs after 7 o'cl that was the
rules I gave you there's no guidance
from ICT by the way there's no guidance
there's no rule B this idea he never
tells you how to do it it's just he
talked vaguely and he reinen things and
rename stuff that other people wrote
about here's the high and the second one
okay and the market drops down do you
chase
that no
uhuh why because you have a new day
opening gap down here that it's most
likely going to trade to
okay it doesn't need the trade there
today as I'm going to prove to you in a
little bit okay you can be profitable
without it never reaching that it could
do that return back into here in London
last like like tonight it could trade
there in London tonight if it hadn't
dropped down there and that's what I
would have done looking for a trade in
London okay I know some of you thinking
oh here I would have could have trust me
you're about to see an execution just
sit your ass down these highs
here that would be an ideal scenario to
run those highs out that would be a fake
move so that would be a Judah swing okay
as referred to before if we we have a
predisposed Direction in mind where we
want to trade where there's a larger
draw or gravitational pull on price
that's outside the parameters of just
relative equal highs or relative equal
lows because that's just one piece of it
that's just a piece of it so you want to
have a a tool a weapon okay A a weapon
in Your Arsenal that will help you
understand with more probability more
odds in your favor that the Market's
going to gravitate to a very specific
range in price action and that range
needs to be a new day opening Gap or a
new week opening Gap Caleb that's your
black hole if you will it's going to
draw price to it it doesn't mean it's
going to be a straight line to it it
just means that it's going to have an
overwhelming impact on the overall
direction of what pric is going to do
there may be static price action moving
around it might have a little bit of
flurry of rallies here and there but
ultimately it's going to bend a knee and
go right to where it needs to go which
is the new day opening Gap or new week
opening Gap okay so this is engineering
liquidity as the market drops down we
would never go short right away after
seeing new uh new start of a new am
session at 7 o'clock and they have
relative equal highs especially if we're
thinking a new day opening Gap is a draw
so what we would rather do is we would
rather see it trade up and cancel out
this liquidity so as it's dropping
Traders are going to chase that think
yes this is a this is really good this
is easy all I got to do is follow the
moving averages okay do your stochastics
overbought and oversold uh you you take
your profit wait for another overbought
and go s go short right well this level
you would have on your chart and you
would observe that okay
Above This high is buy side okay buy
side liquidity or buy stops the market
rallies after nine
o'clock we get this little squiggly line
here and then it runs pumps up above it
one two three relative equal High then
breaks down and then increas another
relative equal
High Are
we more likely to clear these highs
here if we have what I've been teaching
you here the larger draw the more
influential draw on liquidity are new
day opening gaps and new week opening
gaps that's the real hidden that's the
magnet on price okay and when you start
mapping them out on your chart and
keeping them active on your chart with
the time reference points that I've told
you like the the life cycle of
them for the sake of having more time
used with them you can create an
additional layout on trading view where
you keep them
for as long as you want okay but just
understand knowing how to use them and
managing them when they're older just
you have to keep track of how many times
they've been referred to and it takes a
little bit of effort and most people
don't want to listen to me Teach
something that's going to make them
millions of dollars if they put their
asses to work with it but hey you know
everybody wants to do their own
thing you can see the power of using
this information once you start logging
them in your own charts you're going to
see them in your charts once you have
them you're going to watch price do all
kinds of silly [__] that people on
YouTube on Twitter on social media if
they're making their opinions vocal in
public you're going to start smiling
your the corners of your mouth are going
to start aching because you're going to
be smiling grinning your ass off because
you can see them falling victim they're
literally falling on the sword of the
market and then they're going to get
sucked into emotion going right down to
these levels or up to these levels in
different to when it's bullish but
you're going to see it and you're going
to watch it unfold and you're going to
have a perception over price that you've
never imagined
before it's it literally is if you
remember watching the Batman when uh he
he linked all everybody's cell phones
together and it was like a a radar he he
could see things because of their cell
phones all being linked together or like
the Matrix when Neo finally saw the
Matrix for what it was and he could just
see it in binary code Z zeros and ones
and that it it's very very close to that
feeling if I can use an analogy that's
artistic if you
will because you have a vision that's
outside the
candlesticks you don't see the
candlesticks anymore for for just open
high low and close you're seeing them as
a black hole pulling
price okay pulling price dark pull
pulling price
where everybody else is unaware they're
unaware they have no idea what the
[__] going on they're freaking out
because they're losing their trade
they're blowing their accounts their
system stuff ain't working the guy are
folling signals are
[__] they have no idea what's going on
but it's Greening towards this hidden
area that nobody seems to give a [__]
about but they saw it when it gapped
open at the beginning of the day they
saw it Gap
on Sunday everybody knows about that Gap
it's always been talked about gaps oh
everybody knows about a
gap nobody knows about a gap but they
all know about it
now these areas of price will never ever
ever ever ever ever ever ever ever be
hidden from you so therefore they will
always have Effectiveness in your
trading they'll always be efficient comp
departments to a trading model that has
a huge impact on what makes you
successful in Reading price therefore as
a default if you can do entries that are
very systematic that have sound logic
behind them and you have small risk and
you don't overtrade then by default what
does that mean that you're offered and
afforded potential profitability and
what happens if you do these things
these routines these protocols these
step by step by step by step things this
guidance and you don't deviate from it
you don't try to reinvent the wheel yeah
I like icts rims but I'm going to spray
paint of my color and call it my
thing no don't change it stick to the
things that I'm showing you don't
embellish upon them just take that
information and use it and be thankful
that you got it because I didn't have to
give it to you I didn't have to teach
this stuff to you I've been sitting on
this stuff for three decades
man watching everybody else out there
act like they know they're talking out
everybody on CNBC the Market's gonna do
this the Market's gonna do that oh [__]
and then what you'll see is when you can
watch social media as a herd when they
start talking about when they're bullish
and when they're bearish or they say oh
it's a crash the Market's crashing
you'll be walk right in there and say
okay I'm going to be a
buyer oh the Market's going to drop it's
it's going to it's going to crash it's
going to crash you go in there because
you see that herd mentality going
against an
idea based on these principles and if
it's diametrically opposed the odds my
experience the odds are going to be in
your favor and less in
theirs and that's the key to trading
with high degree of precision you have
Smart money precision and odds in your
favor when you're waiting for periods of
time when the markets participants that
are stupid stupid dumb Street money
that's people that talk about their
ideas
online those individuals that openly
show their hand and show their
cards that is Street
money okay Street money is my wife when
Bitcoin was just about to get to 20,000
the first time but failed and she said
do you trade Bitcoin I said what did you
just say to
me I said do you trade Bitcoin and I
said that's it didn't even answer I went
right on Twitter I said that's
it Bitcoin ain't hitting 20,000 it's
going to go it's going to drop to 6,000
and it did and I said I was going to go
to 3,000 but I was off by three 300
points it's all history it's all
there her perspective is Street money
it's the dumb money perspective because
she doesn't know how to trade she
doesn't know how to markets operate and
here she is has she has an interest in
Bitcoin because it had been going up
everybody's talking about it well there
you go go you're near the
high so what I like to do and a lot a
lot of people get pissed off at me a lot
of people that are taking my stuff and
trying to run mentorships and stuff
they're really going to heat up and
start talking about me okay they're
going to say I'm a fraud they're going
to say this that thing because they need
their marketing to focus the attention
on themselves and they look like a hero
because now they can point the finger
back ICT IC doesn't he doesn't teach you
look at everybody's making money off the
stuff I've taught for don't forget that
don't forget these people talking to you
have made money off of the stuff I've
taught they all have a little sales
pitch and that's fine look I got no
problem I got no personal beef with
anybody you're going to do what you're
going to do because you need to eat and
I'm not trying to starve anybody I'm not
trying to starve anybody because what's
about to happen it's going to affect
every single one of us so if this helps
me from dulling out money to my son
because he can now make his money doing
this outside and above his job guess
what that helps me do it helps me sleep
at night it takes any worry about him
not being able to make it if something
happens to me he's he's able to do this
he can take care of it and that means
that his brothers who don't
trade they can learn from him I've been
trying to get one of them to do it
really well so that way I know if I have
to lay my head down for the last time
and leave this world that I know I'm
able to have this passed on that's
that's my
motivation but you have to think about
okay well here's relative equal highs so
they're going to run above that right
because ICT said they're going to run
above the highs
you see what I'm showing you here today
this is underlying narrative and you're
coupling it with the engineering of
liquidity if there's an arm wrestling
match okay say you have an arm wrestling
uh match between uh oh good gracious I
can't even think of anybody that's a
strong
man I I don't I don't know uh just think
of someone that's very very strong okay
big biceps big upper body big latissimus
dors side deltoids real big and then you
have somebody you
know some teenager at at school okay and
he's got like spaghetti arms and they're
going to have an arm wrestling match
who's going to win clearly right clearly
it's going to be the Behemoth it's it's
it's a monster right clearly outweighing
and strength and
everything when you place the effects of
what street money will see in price
versus what a smart money perspective is
over price you literally are arm
wrestling the strongest man in the world
expecting to Win It it's not going to
happen and this repeats every single
week and every single trading day
because the retail crowd number one they
don't even believe most of you listening
to me you probably don't really believe
there's an algorithm but you you you
entertain me because you think this is
something like a nervous tick I got to
keep talking about or whatever I you
know at this point if you don't see it
or believe it there's no hope for you
there's literally no hope for you in
that regard you don't need to believe in
an algorithm for it to be profitable you
could say well you know I'm going to
suspend my belief about it and it's not
important to me I just want to trade
something that works okay wonderful but
you can't knock me for telling you
what's really going on because I'm not
lying to you about it it's really there
and these are the reasons why it repeats
because if it's an algorithm the
algorithm does the same things all the
time because it's following a code it's
following the syntax and coding and the
logic that was used to create it and it
has to refer back to Old information it
can't pull stuff out of its ass it's not
a real thing so it has to use
instructions like a recipe okay if you
have a recipe card you pull it out and
say I want to make a chicken alfredo all
right what ingredients do I need I need
this this this this this so the recipe
is calling your attention to well before
we begin you have to have a measuring
cup of this much parmesan cheese and
this much of this and cream and whatnot
you have to all have all these
information laid out in front of how
much we have to have but then you have
to do what you have to execute on that
and get those ingredients measured out
and then you combine
them well the algorithm has to have that
information to call from it needs to go
back in time where it has delivered
price before and it's based on
date day of week month of the year week
of the month what quarter of the year
and what price and what time it was
trading there that's the real [__]
nitty-gritty baby that's what's going on
it's going back to those reference
points it is abs absolutely has nothing
to do with how many times a level was
traded to and now it's created
resistance because everybody stopped
buying it because it went there before
this didn't stop going up because it ran
out of
buyers this didn't go down and not go
higher because it was more
sellers but that's the [__] that
you're told there's a lot of Talking
Heads that get paid a lot of money going
around the world teaching that nonsense
there's a lot of people that go TV and
talk about this stuff and say that
that's what's going on and people eat it
up eat it up oh yeah that's exactly
what's going on that is absolutely not
what's going on that's not what's going
on the liquidity above these highs it's
traded to a here and then it runs a
little bit higher and a little bit
higher and it creates a relative equal
High here and this is designed in
engineering liquidity and this is this
is the the part
that where if you're anticipating a
breakout move you don't get
filled but if you're short you're
getting punished all day long because
they don't want you a part of the move
you have to
wait wait a minute what you got to wait
for
ICT what did I mention at the beginning
of this lecture
today the economic calendar when there's
an absence oh yeah that's right you were
did you did say that [__] there's an
absence of any medium or high impact
news driver in the morning session where
they're predominantly usually released
around 8:30 sometimes 10:00 hour like
that you have the 10:30 you have the uh
the Crudo inventory
number that is generally that like that
that
morning time of day is where all the
reports come out and predominantly it's
mostly given at the 8:30
uh eastern
time but we had none of that today but
at
1:00 eastern time we had the bond
auction so in my mind what I like to do
is I like to sit
still and wait for them to get
everything all set up for that Bond
auction to release at
1:00 now you can you can look at the
economic
calendar and you can use what I'm
showing you here today every single time
they do a bond Bond auction if there's a
day where there's no morning data this
is the this is this is important now
because sometimes you'll have a bond
auction but there'll be Morning News
drivers that doesn't hold true for this
okay this is a condition this is a setup
and a part of determining the narrative
where it's just a clean shot and you can
just really anticipate it paining out
and you can trust everything I've taught
before in terms of Entry mechanisms fair
value Gap entries uh bearish Breakers or
I'm sorry uh bearish order blocks and or
immediate rebounds you that's some of
the things that you're going to see that
I used here to to do a a trade it was a
demo trade okay I want you to understand
that it was a demo trade it was me
showing my son saying hey not Caleb my
youngest son I said this is what Dad
thinks is going to happen here I'm going
to push the button here and I'm going to
wait for it to come back up again I'm
going to show you the execution I'll
walk you through it and then show you
how if you want to hold on to a trade
because I saw a lot of people leave in
the very
first lecture that uh I started in this
2024 mentorship uh I got a lot of
comments saying can you please talk
about how to hold on to a trade how can
you hold on to a trade how to hold on to
a trade for a longer price move well you
obviously have to be able to get into a
profitable trade to begin with so that
that that right there is the first
important factor that you have to first
meet if you can't do that then it
doesn't matter how how far you want to
hold on to a trade because if you can't
get into a trade and make five Handles
in the S&P or 10 Handles in the NASDAQ
and consistently be able to do that you
probably are not going to be equipped to
try to hold for something higher than
that so I'm sure there's a lot of folks
out there that think that by saying
here's how you hold for a larger trade
but they can't do a five handle uh trade
consistently in an S&P or 10- handle uh
run in the NASDAQ if they're not doing
that they think that the answer to
giving them a longer trade hold time or
protocol or procedure that allows or
affords for that that that's something
somehow answers the question of I don't
need to do a 10 handle or a five handle
because I'm now going to trade 50
handles on NASDAQ okay intermediate term
price run for me is 50 handles or more
okay for Nasdaq and then you have a
larger um price swing is f is 100
handles or more and it doesn't I don't
have any grading beyond that but
anything less than 50 handles is just to
me it's like a scout it's a very small
Scout intraday trades um where where
you're swing trading intraday volatility
it's usually like a 50 handle or more uh
price run okay and I'm going to teach
you a little bit how to do that and then
we'll close it for
today so um what this does it Engineers
liquidity with the relative equal highs
when the real narrative is it's going to
drop down
here and if that's the case and you
don't know how to hold for the longer
term trades because the things I'm
giving you here today you it's going to
take time for you to grow into that okay
it's going to take time for you to to
get comfortable with it to fail with it
sometimes and then wrestle with what
that feel what that failure feels like
for you emotionally and psychologically
and you'll see that you're going to do
it wrong in the early stages a lot and
every single time you do it wrong you
have to treat those opportunities as an
opportunity for you to go in and say
okay what didn't I do correctly and what
can I take away from this don't look at
it as a didn't work I'm throwing it away
and I'm going to go back to somebody
else on there that has some kind of push
a button and show me something on my
chart and I'm going to follow that or
let me follow a live streamer and try to
copy them for anybody out there that's
trying to copy a live streamer or a
signal service guy or
gal to me that's the epitome of weakness
because what you're saying is is I am
too [__] lazy to learn how to do this
on my own and I'm going to trust
somebody else that doesn't give two
shits about me or my money or my my
welfare with my family nothing and
they're up there for clicks and giggles
and AD revenue
or monthly revenue from their signal
service or mentorship that's that's what
they care about that's what they care
about they don't care if you make money
they don't give a
[__] but you're going to put your faith
in something like that you're exercising
more faith in somebody that doesn't not
give two shits about you versus someone
doing this for free and I've made
millionaires I've made millionaires
teaching this stuff to them and they're
using it they've brought receipts
forward it's all over the internet
people are using all this stuff okay but
you don't want to trust me for whatever
reason I don't know why but this stuff
works and it can work in your hands and
place that faith that you're putting in
these Jokers out there that are trying
to rip your ass off and and take money
from you take that same measure of faith
and place it in yourself and your
ability to do this because you can do it
you absolutely can do it you just got to
let yourself get to that point where
you're not letting outside influences
mess you up and don't let that internal
voice that you use to defeat yourself
with don't let that you know hold you
down either you're going to have
adversities you're going to mess it up
you're not going to follow rules you're
going to try to invent something new and
that way you can say I want not use this
and help me make my own model no you
didn't you gambled and did something
outside the realm of the procedures and
processes I've outlined and then it may
have worked for you there let's see if
it works for three years in a row and
you can quit your job on it are you
willing to bet it that much before you
start talking about what you did on
social media chances are no but you want
to have some dopamine hit your dopamine
hit should come by you following the
rules and sticking your ass in front of
these charts every single day and
following the rules of engagement that
means
process practice Proficiency in that
order that's how it happens it there's
no circumvention or navigation around to
get to the top of of I can now do it
because I did it in a shorter time
period take the time element of how fast
you need to get there out of it because
you don't know how long it's going to
take you you might be worrying about it
you might be watching these things
thinking I don't know if I can do all
this I don't think I can follow the
rules okay then you have to really
really sit yourself down and say is it
ever going to get easier if you don't at
least try to adhere to the
rules because it's never going to get
easier if you don't do that but if you
do it even if you fail initially the
first few weeks and find no value in it
right away you're working towards a
baseline And by journaling that
experience what you'll see over a month
at the end of the month and you start
looking back at the charts and you say
man I had no idea what this guy was
talking about but now I see this shit's
working I don't I can't get into the
trade yet but I can see where price is
going and when people get like that
that's one of the best feelings as a
teacher because they you're learning the
hardest part to this that's the hardest
part folks you think it's the entries
and where your stop loss is that's easy
[__] that's easy stuff I got 81 ways to
get into that
thing and you only need one and every
single day every one of my PD arrays are
there on one time frame or another every
81 of them there can't be 81 kiml come
on there's 81 of them and it's not just
me talking about an inversion level and
calling it one it's not inversion aspect
of it is not there we're talking it's
technically what double that if you use
it as an
inversion but it's 81 very specific PD
arrays that I can see in price and
anticipate them being there and then key
off of that
but you only need
one just
one just one and the patience to wait
for it with a narrative expecting price
to draw draw to
that and if you can anticipate that you
don't need moving averages you don't
need trend lines you don't need you
don't need Trend analysis there's no
Trend analysis in this I didn't even
refer to a daily
chart notice that we're not even using
daily chart s we're just using intraday
volatility time of day time and price
liquidity but the aspect of
narrative why price should be moving
anyway why should it
move why should
it that stems from the economic
calendar or the lack thereof like we had
nothing on the morning session there was
no there was no data
so that's why I that's why I scheduled
my eye appointment that morning this
morning I told you I I I can't be with
you because I have a an eye appointment
I didn't tell you it was an eye
appointment but I I got to my eyes
checked and my prescription went up to
two two more steps higher so that's a
little concerning but long story
short I afforded myself the time away
from the charts not worrying about any
of this knowing that the afternoon has
that Bond auction some of my students
knew right away by me saying I'm going
to do the afternoon I'm I told you
around 1:30 today yesterday in part two
I told you I would start the live stream
and then I settled in at 1:45 give
myself some time to grab something eat
what and then here I
am
that is maturity that's patience that's
knowing what to wait for and what to
look for and also canceling out an
interest where everybody else is going
to try to break their
ass doing something in the morning
session if you have no data no reason
for them to manipulate price in the
morning session okay write this stuff
down if there's no data medium impact or
high impact in the morning
session try to trade the afternoon
session because the cleaner price action
will be after New York lunch when does
that happen it's as
1:30 but starting between 1:30 and 230
there's usually some kind of a a sweet
spot that forms in price action where
it's just really really easy to see it
and even if you miss it you can start
using what I taught you yesterday where
you can use a very sub one minute chart
and get in sync with a price run that's
already unfolding on a higher time frame
one minute or five minute chart okay so
to answer the
question and if you'll afford me the
ability to go forward with the lectures
as I intended to do them for my son I
just wanted to address the question of
how how to hold on to a trade
longer how you know how to hold on to
trades that are moving in your favor
longer I had a lot I don't know what I
don't know what instigated it but the
very first video had a lot of that in it
by lots of different YouTube channel
commenters like they were really
interested in seeing how the whole one
to trades longer and
uh truth be told and I hope um Matt
doesn't get upset I can't imagine why he
would be upset about it but at the time
when I was talking to him privately in
text messages I was sharing with him
what I thought the level was going to be
for the day and then I would execute and
trade and I would show him my entry my
stop and as it was progressing to the
trade then when it would hit this hit
the limit order or stop me out before
getting to the ultimate Target whatever
I was trying to encourage him to uh hold
on to a little bit larger price run
I understand he has a model I told him
said keep doing that but try to grow in
using some of the things I'm going to
show you and I told him the very first
uh um videos I do and and that's not
these videos by the way Matt um I was
going to do three lectures turtle soup
um and two other ones I can't remember
the title the head but two two different
subject matters but one was turtle soup
and how to hold on to these uh trades
and how to you know capitalize on bigger
runs in price action and not just do do
ultra small scalping and he seemed very
receptive to it and he witnessed me
doing it like you know week after week
daily showing him you know this is where
it's going to go he would go there and
U I'm hoping that he uses this if he
watch I don't know if he's watching this
stuff but um the the idea of getting
into a trade and holding on to it you
have to have something that's going to
have a
larger uh downrange objective which
means you can't look at something just
on a one minute chart and assume that
okay you know this is what I'm gonna aim
I'm gonna aim for this you have to have
some kind of reason to justify the trade
moving beyond what a small time frame
like one minute is going to afford you
in terms of range how far can it move
and how far can it move that session but
still maybe continue the next trading
day or going into the next week okay um
so just know that I'm going to give you
some ideas here but it's not going to
answer everything
because it's a subject matter that can
be really taken to extreme and just keep
building adding clay to it as you go
because what does that
mean to ask how long or how to hold a
trade longer because you can use any of
these entry models on a smaller time
frame and let's say you're doing it on a
day when it's
Pro potentially creating a a run that
may drop for
months see how hard it is to answer that
question so I know how I could engage
that but I also know that my personality
doesn't afford me the comfort of sitting
in something that long because I see
thousands of setups over the span of one
month and my opinion can change because
I have a very very hyper active
mindset so when I look at price I can
see in in in in one in one hour I can
see half a dozen trades that may go
unnoticed by most people it doesn't mean
they 50 handle runs but I could be
buying and selling up and down inside
that one hour time frame and be done and
never do anything else for the rest of
the day or elect to trade on one time
frame you know waiting for a specific
setup to unfold so I appreciate and
understand the question that the
students that are asking that you know
how to hold on to it so to answer it in
a generic way to kind of like a be a
blanket
response before you put on the trade you
have to have an understanding of where
it could potentially trade to okay and
I'm assuming that maybe you're aiming
for something like a 100 handles or more
something like that you know that to me
it's a fair assumption on on the part of
holding for a longer trade because most
of my stuff teaches around 20 Pips 25
handles uh you 50 50 handles something
to that effect but anything greater than
100 handles on index trading or I guess
maybe even Forex if you're still trading
it I think that they're respectable um
halls in terms of points or ticks or
what have
you if you're looking for that type of
trade then you have to use your analysis
that affords you that type of range and
I've said it before when I was teaching
in other lectures and other lessons on
this YouTube channel and in Twitter
spaces when I was doing
them the the trade has to give me for
instance if I want to if I want to chake
uh 10 handles and I I feel confident
that I can get 10 handles out of the
next price run I got to look for
something that's going to give me 15 to
20 well how do I determine that well
let's give this an example here if this
range is going to ant be anticipated
that it's going to be sloppy in the
morning to don't trust anything in the
morning
and wait for the afternoon session so
what does that mean I have to wait until
at least
1:30 so at
1:30 that starts the afternoon session
for
me now sometimes the moves can begin
just a little bit before 1:30 and it's
not a big deal I I don't care about that
but generally I like to be in front of
my charts at 1:30 because even if
nothing forms in that next 30 minutes
going into
2:00 I know I can get something post 2
o00 because there's there's a silver
Bullet at 2:00 going in from 2:00 to 3
and if I miss that or it just doesn't if
I don't get a good read on it or just
just simply doesn't do anything but goes
sideways then I'm going to look at it in
the 3:00 hour to to the close and every
single day it's there but you have to
look at it on time frames that will
allow you to see it and if we're going
to use the dynamic that was in play for
today obviously morning session avoid it
there's no news and the only information
that was going to used as
manipulation or to upset or or to
engineer sentiment for Traders is that
1:00 hour when they had the bond auction
so the bond auction at one o'clock that
was my go-to so I was watching and
anticipating okay there's going to be a
move so I want to see
something that is going to be used as a
fuel it's going to be fuel for a run
into um this down here
but keeping in mind that I'm teaching
you as I taught yesterday if you're
going to trade outside of just a
relative equal low if you're
bearish then you can for people that
have a better understanding and that's
not going to be all of you that are
watching this it's going to be students
that have been with me for a while you
got to refer to what the market had done
in the previous session in in the like
the London session for instance but we
have this low here and we have this low
here here what does that make that what
is this right
here relative equal low does it meet the
criteria I gave you as a filter the most
right side in other words there's going
to be two swing highs or two swing lows
regardless if it's relative equal high
or relative equal low the right one
whatever the one is on the right hand
side if it's relative equal lows it has
to be higher than the previous low does
it do that here yes so the condition is
there that this is a high
probability relative equal low for the
purpose of drawing to it now here's a
huge paradigm shift for you okay you're
going to jump light here ahead in your
understanding the fact that we had the
new day opening Gap below that that is a
further like Rocket Fuel that this is
going to be easy to trade
to but in the beginning stages you won't
know these types of things and you won't
have the confidence to hold on to so you
graduate into doing it by taking trades
that's just the aim for this and then
you paper trade or not I shouldn't say
it like that paper trade like if I say a
paper trade you're G to say okay so
other words demo trade it
no yes you can demo trade it or tape it
so in other words if you're going to get
to the point where you trust it but you
can't hold for a move down here because
you just can't find it in yourself to do
that because you're watching The Profit
grow and grow and grow and it's probably
the biggest trade you ever had in your
life and now you have anxiety because
you're afraid if you don't take the
trade off while it's at the biggest
point of profit since you put the trade
on it what happens if it reverses and
you're going to feel bad that you didn't
take out the full thousand or hundreds
or whatever the size is that you're
trading with than leverage and affording
you that that profit you're going to be
worrying about that instead of watching
and seeing is price still behaving in a
manner that supports the idea of it
reaching to this level okay so number
one to hold on to trades longer you have
to have something outside of the
normal range that you would trade for so
if you're graduating from 25 30 50
handles there has to be something that
points to price going to something
beyond that okay so if we're looking at
that lunch hour and we know that there's
news coming out at one o'clock because
the bond auction me I'm a little bit
more
I don't mind risk let's say it that way
okay uh if I do something wrong I can go
back in and generally fix that problem
okay I can like mitigate that or um when
I was doing uh dominoes and I used to
manage The Dominoes when I was younger
um we had a running joke for any new
hire that came in if I was running out
of dough I would usually take the last
dough and put my hole through it before
I slapped it out into a pizza and I
would show the new hire and say look go
into the freezer and bring me the dough
repair
kit and it's a running joke everybody
that works there knows it's it's
[__] there's no such thing as a
dough repair kit but they'll look at you
nod and they'll go into the freezer and
look around for something that says
dough repair kit there's no dough repair
kit so I say that
because you have to treat your boo boos
in trading just like that if you make a
hole in the dough when you're slaping on
a pizza just flatten Out roll it out and
it's it's fixed pinch it roll it out
it's done in trading when you have a
loss or if you did a poor placement you
maybe
you uh took took the trade a little too
quick you were trying to anticipate the
setup versus waiting for the setup um
and you may have to get out of it and
wait for the real set the form and you
may get a a draw down you may get
stopped out and you may need to do
something else you know as a later setup
well the mindset that's needed to do
that has to be in place also because if
you're going to be holding for longer
term price runs the the potential for
you to be stopped out
prematurely increases
exponentially because in the beginning
you don't trust that the Market's going
to still work towards this direction
every little
retracement is going to feel like it's
bottomed because you don't have that
experience yet and when you start having
these new day opening gaps and new week
opening gaps and start waiting for price
to gravitate towards them
that is like a it's like
a an exercise that strengthens your
patience but you can't FastTrack it you
can't make it happen faster because you
want it to be faster like you just can't
download the experience of saying okay
I'm just going to hold for these new
week opening gaps or New Day opening
gaps and I can trust it because I I he
said so so that's enough no you need to
see it for weeks and months and then
over time oh yeah I I can see what it's
trying to do and I'm not going to get
tripped up by all these little
fluctuations but with that said just
know that there's a graduation point
that you have to go to which would be
using this area right over
here so that's what I've been teaching
you so far in the first two lessons that
we're looking for these types of things
when the market is likely to go lower
what are we looking for Caleb we're
looking for these types of things here
higher low than the previous one that
are in close proximity to one another so
this is a target that we would use to
aim for going short at a time when the
market is going to be used
used to accelerate around that Bond
auction number at
1:00 if you look in
here right
here zoom in a little bit you you can
see this is not Market
replay all right here's one of those 81
PD arrays
okay the market trades up and starts to
roll over what time of day is at it's
12:42 so what are we approaching we're
fastly approaching what that 1:00 hour
and the news is going to be released at
one 1 minute after one okay so B 1:00 so
1:00 the bond auction number is going to
be released at the marketplace and then
everybody does whatever they're going to
do based on that okay so the the
understanding is this that number comes
out and then Traders are going to buy
and sell and the buying and selling
pressure after that market release is
done pushes price around [__] what's
actually happening is the Market's
already starting to run lower
this candle here trades up I want to see
it be
sensitive give me let me take this
execution off for a second and I'll put
them back on I want to be able to
showare the candles and shit's in my
way this Candlestick traded up into this
Gap now if this was
a PD array that I wanted to trade on
that would be my entry but because I'm
trading ahead of this is the stuff that
you write down because these are all
questions people used to leave on
Twitter to me when I was doing Twitter
spaces these are always in question uh
form in my comment section my mentorship
students have asked me this many times
in email in the the the place where we
meet all those things it always comes up
okay what do I
do if I am not going to trade the fair
value
Gap what am I looking for ahead of a new
cuz sometimes you'll see me take a trade
before the news or before the opening
bell and I'm I'm recording myself doing
it and invariably what will happen is is
how did you know it was doing that how
did you trust that it was going to go
that direction how did you know it
wasn't going to go the other direction
and the [__] will say well if it
went the other way you never would have
showed that that's their cop out but I'm
going to give you the logic Joker so
that way you can go start testing it and
back test it and see it and it's exactly
what goes on all the time okay okay so
if I know at
1:00 that's when the news is going to
hit for the bond auction okay we already
rounded over here and we had a fair
value Gap there the bodies are
respecting it and we started to displace
lower so just with this alone looking at
the chart like
that okay if it's just looking like that
in your rudimentary understanding of
what I'm teaching you already know the
likelihood that it's probably going to
explore below that low
why because that's where liquidity is
and it's been going down all day and
this is the time it stopped and came all
the way back up here and moved
lower so what is it remember what it's
gravitating
towards down there okay but now you have
this shortterm low here by itself that's
a reason to be short you have two
factors you have that new day opening
Gap as a larger like black hole wanting
to eventually pull price to it then you
have this low here where there's very
short-term
minor sell side
liquidity okay so there sell below there
don't be worried or consumed about the
fact that these Highs are relatively
equal don't let that bother you why
because the Market's moving
lower and it's pulling
to this and even if it doesn't trade
there during the day
session because this is the day session
low
here during the S o'clock to this point
this is the lowest it traded to at that
time
so there's going to be STS below that
for anyone that try to chase this going
higher these relative equal highs they
can stay in play they don't need to be
upset they don't need to do anything the
Market's going to stay heavy and keep
working lower how do you know that ICT
experienced the fact that this is still
likely to
happen
and think what's over here in the London
session
that
low there so we have this low this low
and this so what is that that's three
things that's heavy factors on wanting
to see price draw to it there's no entry
pattern there there's no moving average
no indicator no [__] logic except
for it's liquidity and the market is
operating on a narrative that it's going
going to
drop to reach into that liquidity
because if they're going to spend all
this time above these relative equal
highs during the 7 o'clock hour and 8
o'clock hour and then they Judah swing
into the nine
o00 well this this is this is all being
held up
there tripping people up chopping people
up grinding them all up and then finally
it
breaks I don't need to be a part of that
because the economic calendar just like
the TV guy used to do for me would tell
me when my favorite time in front of the
box would be at 9:00 on a Friday L Arno
would turn green he's the Incredible
Hulk Channel 11 I know where I'm going
to be at well the time on the economic
calendar says that at one o'clock today
we have a bond auction that's the only
point of interest that I have on that
final calendar and it's a medium impact
driver it's not high impact but it's
medium impact so what that means is I
want to be in the
market anticipating
this low being taken out this low from
London with relative equal lows remember
that's this over here see that that's
going to be taken and this is the part
for those that if you are not able to
hold the trade longer and you don't know
how to get there this is what you do you
take a partial below
here and you close the trade here and
then you tape read the rest of it and
you Journal the [__] out of it you
journal every single time you feel an
impulsive feeling or emotional about the
idea that maybe if you think it's going
to not go down there that's when you
screenshot
it and and real quickly make a notation
on it that I have doubts it's going to
drop here and then what you do is you
look at that after the fact and say okay
I didn't see this so this is the
takeaway and you re reinforce it
positively and by doing that exposure
you desensitize yourself to needing to
be right and it expands your your
comfort from getting into this trade and
getting out maybe that would be the end
of your trade or getting to the trade
and then getting out below here and
never never seeing all this run down
here but it gives you that little cookie
that little reward that you did
something it was Sound Logic but then
you use everything past that time that
you close the trade as a real focused
oriented drill to build your experience
and exposure to waiting for the pan
out believe me it it doesn't it doesn't
happen overnight it's going to take you
a long time to hold on to price runs
that just go and go and go and go and
honestly you're you're going to miss a
lot of big runs if you want to trade
like that and if you allow yourself to
be beaten up easily and you'll do it
trust me every Trader does it I should
have held longer I would I wish I would
have held on to it more I wish I
wouldn't have took all the partials off
I wish I would have you know held the
whole thing that's all toxic thinking so
when I answer a question like this
that's why it's very long-winded because
as soon as I mention anything about it
there's a series of new questions that
will will come up and it'll feel like I
didn't answer the question for you which
is why I opened the whole dialogue
around it with I know me talking about
this isn't going to answer or scratch
the itch for for every one of you but as
a means of growing in the right
direction on how to hold on to a trade
longer you do these types of things and
it's already been taught on the
mentorship and it's already on the
YouTube channel it's something I've
talked about multiple multiple times but
now anyway we're going to go back into
this area here I got to zoom in on
it all right so I know that this is the
the time when the market should start
running because that's when the bond
auction numbers come out okay we're up
here I know I have a real strong
likelihood that's going to at least take
this out and maybe run below here going
into that one o00 news
release well here's the one o00 and then
the market drops here what I was looking
at is I want to see does it do this does
it run up into this fair value Gap
there that's this
here there's your fair value Gap and
what is it doing there does it at least
touch the consequent encroachment or
midpoint of that Gap
closely no it doesn't it gets real close
to it but it doesn't let me see if I can
make it a little bit
bigger see just fall short of it the
fact that it goes up there and doesn't
touch it and then closes here I
know I know that that right there is a
bearish order
block I can trade after the next candles
come up into and bump in the bottom of
it I'll trade short there all all it has
to do is move away from it and then come
back up into that I can trust this
candle not being
overtaken what's the next candle do goes
up to it but doesn't touch this line and
it doesn't even breach the candle's high
now if if it would have traded up and
touched that midpoint and then did that
I would not have taken that trade I
would have waited for another attempt to
get in there and work just a little bit
above the con encroaching and then I
would try to go short in this upper part
there that's what I would have done
differently but because it didn't and
couldn't even touch the consequent
encroachment these are PD arrays and yes
they're used for very specific and
static levels to enter and exit on but I
also use these same price points as a
means of measuring strength and weakness
if this Candlestick can't even touch
that but gets close to it it's signaling
it's a signature that's an algorithmic
signature for someone that knows what
they're looking for that tells me that
when this candle closes all I need to do
is see it move away and come back up and
touch the bottom of that and that's a be
short of
what yes now with that logic I can be
short and take a partial below here or
if I know that I can trust that it's
going to go down below the London lows
then I'll put a limit order below
that and then I can sit and explain to
my my son that I think it may go down to
those lows but I'm positioned now that
if it doesn't need to do it today it'll
probably go down there in the London
session tonight where to the new day
opening gap down here so with all of
that narrative explained to
you let's put the executions back
on there you go so now we have the
market displaced below the bearish order
block
this candle here we open And Trades
up where is it there you go it trades up
touches It Go
short there's your low what's the low of
that candle look right here see that
candle um see that price right there
right above my cursor that's the low
what's the low of the
candle 18320 and a quarter okay the
fill 18321 and a quar
so as it's bumping into that I'm selling
short right there and I want to see it
aggressively run below here it
does go back for a
second the fact that we traded up here
and we didn't touch the consequent
encouragement of this I like to see if
you're if there's two fair value gas
because we have here and we have here
you have to at least anticipate
that it may go up into that Higher One
but if it fails at the lower one's
consequent encroachment and there's a
news driver coming I have no problem no
fear of ab absolutely none of getting
into the
trade if I did it wrong and I get
stopped out I've shown executions where
I've done this my students have seen it
it's on my YouTube channel it was on
Twitter you seen me get stopped out and
then I go right in there and I do
another entry and it pans out or if I
did it wrong and I know that my
direction was off and I'm offside I
reversed and did the other direction and
then the partner just goes the other way
that is going to come by experience so
invariably if I if I address or feel the
questions that come to me
um a lot of these questions will be
answered with your own experience and
it's an unfortunate topout sounding
response but that's the truth you you're
going to you're going to feel
comfortable doing certain things that
you aren't going to be comfortable even
imagining doing at the beginning of your
stages of of learning so I wanted to see
this stay open okay I wanted to see it
fail to get to that midpoint of the
lower one because it because it failed
there okay wonderful I not worried about
it but go back to what I was saying if
it would have touched the consequent
encroachment and this candle I would
have anticipated trading up into the
higher part of this and then my stop
loss would have had to be above the
midpoint of this consequent
encroachment you see how this gave you
everything that is logic based it's
these These are this is your
guidance these are the things I've
already taught they're in all the
discussion points of everything I've
ever taught on this YouTube channel all
these things unless I said my students
have never learned that everything else
has already been taught to you but
because you didn't write anything down
and you didn't take notes and you're
just falling asleep to it because a lot
of people use me as a lullabi they just
listen to me and go to sleep which is
fine you know what i r GL and help you
sleep good
but everything I've taught unless I'm
saying to you this is the first time
even my students learned it I'm I'm
expecting you to already have it in your
journal in your in your points of
understanding what these things are
expected to tell you but anyway it drops
down and then we have an immediate
rebalance okay so we have the market
trading down here we have a big down
Clos candle the market trades back up
boom bumps into it here imediate
rebounds and then I get a little bit of
heat here but that does not take me
underw
this was only it would still have like
$1,700 in profit even with here why how
can that be possible if I'm if I'm
entering here look it down here if I'm
entering short there why isn't that
giving me draw down in the trade
negative draw down let's say it that
way because the larger trade entry is
here there's six contracts here and you
see me doing this all the time this is
my model six and four six and four so
six contracts at the higher price if I'm
short the secondary affords me when I'm
only doing four contracts it affords me
to trade above that that entry it's
forgiven because it could do what it can
revisit this fair value Gap it can trade
inside that but I don't want to see it
do that so I had to have a little bit of
heat there but it doesn't fill
it it just goes up
to that level there and what is it doing
there is it touching the consequent
encroachment before it makes the swing
High here nope so the what does that
tell me it signals to me just sit back
and relax don't do anything just relax
move your stop
to your first entry minus two ticks and
just relax just relax and now we go into
one o'clock look what happens at one
o'cl they pump
it and then dump it small little fairb
you got right there all you're doing is
you're studying price and you're seeing
every Cy remember I was telling you
yesterday when the narrative's in play
and it's going to go lower or your
analysis assuming that it will go lower
you're looking at how the market is
treated at every Cy sell sign balance
buy sign efficiency or a fair value Gap
that has a down close it's defined by
this candle's low this candle's High
even this range is that far down this is
the only imbalance so we have a little
bit of overshoot there that's called a
mohawk it's just coloring sign the lines
I talked about it yesterday it doesn't
change anything it doesn't change it did
it take out this high no it all it this
is went outside the boundaries just a
little bit and the next one gives you
pece of mind because what is it doing
it's stopping right at the high of the
fair value app what's the high of that
candle you're going to look right here
upper left hand corner look at that
value right there what's the high of
that
candle
18283 point7 what's the low of this
candle here that's that's right
here
18283 50
it's it's not it's not going outside the
realm
of what you would expect price to reach
to and then move away
from is that is that proving to you that
Sellers and their selling pressure had
the ability to stop it like that it
doesn't do it to me you'll never
convince me of that you'll never
convince me that sellers and buyers stop
every bit of one of these turns in all
these p right to the tick or the point
or within a ear shot of it you're never
going to convince me of that and even if
I didn't believe in an algorithm I would
think it was something other than
that but thankfully I don't have to but
the market trades aggressively after one
o'clock after we have a retracement so
here we have model
2022 here we have optimal trade
entry easy isn't it it's easy when you
have all the the guidance and rules in
place and you do the things that you're
taught to do focusing on the time of
day and anticipating the delivery of
price based on factors that call Price
to It New Day opening gaps new week
opening gaps relative equal highs
relative equal lows and then below that
in in terms of
importance you have
inefficiencies inefficiencies are
subordinate and less important than
relative equal highs relative equal lows
or New Day or New week opening gaps
because their influence over price the
algorithm will refer refer and prefer
more INF uh importance and significance
placed around
them I'm not going to tell you the logic
behind that just trust me on that it'll
serve you well you don't need to know
anything beyond that when you drive your
car what do you do you push the button
or turn the key you don't need to know
how all that stuff works under the hood
same thing
here
gaps when they're actual like new week
open and new day opening Gap that is
absolutely going to be much more
significant because there's a lack of
Trades there inefficiencies I'll say
this much you have one side of the
delivery offered to it meaning that for
instance let's go back to this one here
this sell side and balance buy side and
efficiency has sell-side
delivery okay sell-side delivery is
always one-sidedness moving lower cells
side liquidity is what's resting below
that
low the London low or relative equal
lows that this line is here remember
that's this over
here that's these over here okay that is
cell side on The Daily range that's the
lowest that's moved for the day
overnight London so it's is going to
want to try to gravitate to that
too that is real
orders that's not inefficiency it's
There's real pending orders down there
that is the lifeblood of the marketplace
real buy stops real sell stops that is
the heartbeat of what makes these
markets go up and down in between that
okay in between that you have
inefficiencies inefficiencies have one
pass through so they have delivery in
this case we have sell-side delivery but
what is it lacking buy side if I'm
bearish I don't want to see buy side
offered because what that what that's
telling me is I don't want to see it
traded in the upper half of this I don't
want to see that at all in fact I'm
enamored when I see it not even touch
consequent encouragement I basically get
a hard on from that I I I am turned on
by that when I'm in a trade I get so
cocky and arrogant you see it in my
trades or I'll annotate it I do I very I
say very factious things because I see
not just this signature but other things
I'm not going to share with you and N
that pisses you off oh you see you're an
[__] you're not teaching me
everything I'm teaching you more than
anybody else would and I'm teaching you
how to make lots and lots and lots of
success therefore
money bread
daero
Moola fun coupons
right the fact that we don't touch that
consequent coach or
midpoint man that tells you what it's
really heavy because otherwise it would
be natural for it to come back up in
here trade there close it in and it
could still roll over I don't like those
kind of
Trades that's that's Chris Lor's stuff
Chris Lor stuff is let's fill the void
that's not a void that's a sside
delivery it's imbalanced it's only sside
it's inefficient and its buy side it's
not going to be
balanced if it just trades up there
that's not balanced okay it needs to go
there and then leave it then it's
balanced that's a balanced price range
so we're not talking about Chris Lor
stuff and you need to stop leaving those
comments in my section okay I made Chris
Lori a millionaire by pushing lots of
people to him and I'm never going to R
for him again I've seen emails where
he's talked about me two fa out both
sides of his mouth he can kiss my
[__] ass so there's there's your
skinny on Chris Lor but the point is
this at one o'clock we have an up closed
candle
and it pumps it what's it doing that one
candle is moving up so people that are
watching that and they see this go up
even though it's a one minute candle
that
triggers people that watch one minute
candles hey I watch ICT stuff I watch
people that trade smart money concept
we're watching one minute charts one
minute charts is the bees needs baby you
can't can't make any money unless you're
tradeing a one minute chart when they
see this do that they're like oh here we
go it's making a failure swing it's
going to go up and this is probably
going to turn into inversion fair value
Gap it's probably going to go for those
relative equal highs up here they they
they chased something so minute and
insignificant losing the entire plot
that it's going to want to run the
London lows and now as I taught you
today it's going to try to gravitate to
New Day opening
gaps and the market does in fact trade
down below the London lows and you can
see my fill right there so my limit low
is just below that there so if you look
at the
fills 321 and a qu adding a part partial
pyramided entry of four more contracts
at 291 and a
quarter scaling off the entirety of the
of the position 10 contracts at
18,23 so that is over 100 handles with
the largest portion there and that
smokes all your favorite live streamers
now your response is going to be but
it's demo my response is this is how I
teach if it doesn't work here it won't
work anywhere else you're not going to
spend my money I'm not going to trade
with real money in front of you I'm
going to teach you the logic I'm going
to show you what it's going to do and I
just saw a young man just use the stuff
I just taught in his mentorship uh
Trader Chris okay I left the comment a
little smiley face because he used what
I taught and he had a trade pan out for
him immediate feedback immediate success
what is he doing he's putting it to task
he's working with the information if
you're going to sit back and just watch
things and look for things to criticize
and not really try to learn it you're G
to be [__] broke the rest of your
life you're G to be a failed Trader
You're Gonna Worship other people on the
internet hoping that they're going to
grease your palm and give you something
special and easy and it's never going to
happen how do I know that because I
spent years and years and years trying
to do
that I'm sorry but I'm the best [__]
thing you're going to get in the trading
industry best [__] thing I'm going to
give you gold for free I'm going to give
it to you and keep giving it to you and
you're G to love me for it you might
curse me you might talk about me behind
my back with your circle of friends but
you're gonna come back and watch my
videos you're gonna learn how to make
money and that's all I care about I just
want to see you do well because what's
about to happen not in just in America
but in every country we're all going to
get the raw stiff right up the backside
and it's going to get real real real
hard and real real real expensive and
unless you're making more money outside
of what you're earning at your job and
you might even lose your job you're
going to feel pain and anxiety and
stress like you've never felt before so
this helps me this helps me feel better
about knowing what I know and I'm not
being greedy with it I'm not being
self-centered I'm not the prick that you
think I am I'm literally giving you
things that nobody else on this [__]
planet knows how about that no one else
is going to teach this to you no one
else is going to be able to replicate it
they can't do it they can't do this
folks they can have my logo in their
[__] thumbnails they can't do this
they're not the [__] author they're
not the person that created it they
didn't codify it
I
am period I'm not going to make it any
more plainer than that if you can't see
that I don't give a
[__] do you want to make more money do
you want to do the things in this
Marketplace and that you can constantly
trust that these things will be there
every single trading week they're going
to be there it's just like having an
apple tree in a backyard and it's ripe
all you got to do is walk your ass out
there and pluck one off the tree these
setups are there every single day and
the logic behind them it takes a little
bit of time and effort to learn it
that's all but it takes
effort and Millennial mindset Tick Tock
mentality the the attention span of a
[__] Gat that doesn't get you
anywhere not in trading not in
life my own kids tried to do it that way
my own children my own flesh and blood
want it easy
and I'm saying
no if I'm not going to do it for my own
kids why would you expect me to do it
for you because it won't work that
way it doesn't work that
way this stuff is available to you it's
on my YouTube channel I'm never going to
delete the channel I'm never going to
delete the videos I'm never going to
charge a private mentorship where I'm
charging money why are you finding fault
with this when it works and other people
are making money with it and I'm
continuously teaching it why because you
want to sell your own
horseshit and you got to find some
measure of importance by spitting on
somebody else but there ain't never
going to be somebody else outshining me
here because I'm making millionaires for
[__] free and you don't have to give
me anything back top that one top that
one can't you can't do it
and that makes you mad because that
makes me the [__] hero and I don't
want to be a hero I'm the anti- guru I'm
doing everything opposite what a guru
would do I could be making millions of
dollars a month all over again selling
all I gota do is put a PayPal link up
all I got to do is do that just like
that in one [__] night I'll have
hundreds of thousands of dollars before
I wake up it'll be a million dollars in
that [__] PayPal
account it it's just like that it's
literally just like
that but I don't want that
and when I'm done teaching
this unless another one of my boys want
to go through this
again I'm not teaching stuff on my
YouTube channel I don't want to make
videos I don't want to do it i' I'm I'm
just not I don't feel like I want to do
it anymore but because it's my son and I
want him to hear what I'm saying I need
him to have the right
mindset and this is Dad talking to him
this is Dad chilling his ass out
reminding him that this is not going to
be easy he's going to to work his ass
off and there's going to be a lot of
things that he has to write down and
test the theory and see it for himself
and once you see it you can't unsee it
you can't forget it it's there it's
ingrained in your idea of how these
markets will work how these markets will
book and when you see it and you know it
and you can trust it nobody can take it
from you they can talk [__] about Dad
all they [__] want they can do
anything they want on internet Chit Chat
Chit Chat all the [__] they want to
say they're [__] broke they're going
to make it in this [__] industry and
they're trying to climb up on my back
because it's strong as [__] and I can
carry all you [__] haters that's what
they're trying to do because they're
irrelevant and insignificant and then
you have the classification of people
that come to this Channel and they watch
it they're quiet they don't even leave
comments saying thank you they're just
quiet they put it to work and they find
out for themselves
wow this [__] really works and then I
get my emails and then I get the
comments I've been following you for a
year I never left the comment before I
just passed my phone to account I just
got my first pay out thank you so much I
never thought this was going to happen
for me I have thousands of those every
single [__] month every single
month from every prop firm and every
brokerage firm that's out there I have
students that are doing that there ain't
a [__] out there that's teaching
people how to trade that has that much
reach and guess who's doing it me
without a price tag without a [__]
give me some money for
it who you going to trust
who you going to trust somebody that's
going to say here join my [__] pay
me money or the guy that just simply
just does it and makes other people
money off of it I don't get nothing for
it I don't get no Kickbacks I don't have
no affiliate links what's in it for me
oh but you make ad Revenue only until
I'm done and then I'm
stopping that channel was only paying me
$30,000 a month $30,000 a month dude
seriously get out here I was making
millions of [__] dollars without even
doing anything without doing [__] what's
$30,000 it's nothing it's literally
nothing I paid $30,000 since in the last
month just for landscaping
stuff yeah how about that you want to
have a [__] big house with a big lawn
this [__] cost
money $60,000 for two uh air
conditioners and furnaces to be put in
uh upstairs and downstairs in your house
you want have a big house it costs money
you think YouTube's going to [__] pay
for that it ain't it ain't enough and I
just don't have the energy to sit and
put videos out here and videos out here
and I just don't have it there's too
many things going on in the world and I
have to make sure my household and my
family are ready but the only thing
that's going to draw my ass back out
here to do this is what my son Caleb
just asked me to do teach him and I
would not be putting videos up here
unless he said he wanted to do he wanted
to document
everything he he like the idea of the ad
Revenue helping him along and he's
trying to make a way of doing it and if
he gets that it carries him through
guess what that means he's got a
secondary income plus his job that keeps
him from doing what gambling and pushing
the trade when he doesn't have to which
is what most people do when they're
trying to learn how to trade with real
money and that's why when you're
learning with real money that's the
worst thing to do because you're going
to have all the worst toxic thinking
right before you push the button and
that's why it's not good to do that you
see this right here right down here it
says demo see that demo paper trading
okay paper trading that's your best
[__] friend when you're first
learning how to do this because no one
can grade you no one can ridicule you
and you don't pay taxes on it you don't
have to worry about a realized loss so
what does it give you the freedom to do
to focus on what price is
doing and that's the only thing you need
to worry about but when you try to do
everything else that everybody else is
teaching you to do try to combine try to
get a funded account trade with a little
bit of real
money you have so many more things to
worry about that are going to distract
you and versus watching what price is
doing you have to look at it and measure
as prices you know fluctuating going up
and down when you're up 500 bucks then
you're down 200 bucks and that's normal
then all a sudden it starts running and
you're up $1,500 in a trade and that
$1,500 is going to feel you want to get
out of it but is there a reason for you
to get out of it except for you just
never made that much money before in a
trade well if that's the answer then you
don't close the [__] trade you hold
on to it what did you put the trade on
for oh it's I got 40 more points 40 more
handles for the trade that's if we were
talking that's I to ask you okay why are
you antsy right now why you
hyperventilating why you getting up out
of your chair pacing around why you
rubbing your arms oh you know I'm
nervous I'm hyperventilating I'm scared
because I'm afraid it's going to turn
into a losing trade why
because you think that this stuff
doesn't work because you didn't practice
it enough you didn't see it in demo you
didn't tape read it enough the trust
that these things repeat every single
week when I came out with that slogan
every week every day and it won't stop
that wasn't just some [__] jingle
that's the real that's the reality every
single week every single day and it's
never ever ever going to stop as long as
these markets are there you're never
going to be short of opportunities to
use this information that should give
you a [__] raging hard on like you
should be walking around with Perpetual
Viagra like you should not be worrying
about those types of things but that is
the clearest indication that you're
brand new or you
don't tape
read because if you do that those
questions never come up those concerns
never come up you just don't see it
because you haven't looked for it and
because you study and you see it and it
it's been journaled and you log it you
have experience after experience to lean
on and say you know what this has been
panning out like he said it was going to
and one day it's going to fail in your
hands and you're going to need to see
how many times it's worked before and
that's going to be your crutch that's
your
counselor that's your that's your remedy
for stress and doubt and
fear because when you go back and say
yeah but look at all this I mean it did
it this day I thought I was going to do
that it did it I I looked at this day
here I did this you got months and years
of looking at that and seeing how many
times it
works so when it does fail in your hands
you did it wrong I do it wrong when I
lose there's nobody's fault in it but
mine it's mine I did it I did it wrong
I'm the operator I messed it
up guess what that does it immediately
allows you to let that loss
go but if you take that that loss and
you put it in other people's hands so
they can criticize it guess what that
means now you made it into a discussion
It's A Conversation Piece
now you're asking other people that you
really don't give two shits about but
you just want them to patch you on the
back when you do it right you're doing
everything
wrong you have to filter that stuff out
even when you're successful you don't go
out there and say hey look at all this
money I made today because you can't
believe it just happened to you if it's
in your bank account trust me it's
[__] real go buy something you don't
need to go on the internet and say this
is how much money I made here's the
proof of it here's the proof of the
payout here's my certificate [__] that
that's a little dick energy perspective
that literally is what weak-minded boys
do a man that is understanding what he's
doing a man of principle does not need
to do those things the fact that he was
able to harvest that money bring it home
for his family and afford himself and
his family whatever they
need that that's the reward the Peace of
Mind knowing it that's what you can do
again next month I can do that again
next month I could do that again next
month it ain't going to change this is
the same [__] it's redundant over and
over and over again that's what back
testing that's what tape reading and
demoing provides for
you and because you've desensitize
yourself from being right or wrong
having to make money see you have to
make money if you start with a l
account you have to or you'll have to
refund it you'll have to put more money
in
it you're increasing the likelihood and
odds of you having to do that if you
skip over everything I've talked about
so far and what I've already taught many
times before but many of you want to
just skip over it like it's somehow
going to be easier for you and you don't
realize that the lessons you get in that
stage are the very things that carry you
through long-term profitable real money
trading what experience do you lean on
if you're not having
this hope in a
prayer emotion
dopamine come on you have nothing to
lean on you're gambling that's what that
is but when you can look at the
marketplace and strip it down to its
Chrome and say okay this is when the
Market's going to move
when well at 7 o'cl we can start looking
for signatures it's going to do
something it 8:00 we start looking for
signatures and see if it's going to do
do something relative equal highs
relative equal lows if if it forms
relative equal lows and you've already
determined at a new day opening Gap or a
cluster of them and maybe a new week
opening Gap same thing below the
marketplace wherever it's trading at
when we start watching price think of it
like a Kill
Zone you have all of these things behind
the scene that retail Traders have no
understanding of and they're getting
their asses handed to them and without
any understanding of why it's happening
they're losing and losing and losing and
you're on the winning
side and you're not worrying about it
not working in the future because this
is what the markets
do when you go out to your car and you
turn the key or push the button do you
expect [__] confetti to fall from the
[__] roof you expect that [__] to
happen because I've never expected that
to happen Okay I expect the car to turn
over and it starts up done that's the
that's a reasonable expectation it's
what it's supposed to
do when you look at these markets with
this perspective we're not looking in
here and thinking
well I said he had 81 of these PD arrays
which one's hiding from me today what
the hell why is he not trying to teach
all that why are you thinking that how
about looking for the ones I've taught
because they're there every day on any
given time frame you're going to find a
plethora of everything I taught
but your your task and I'm saying this
and I'm closing because I've already I
already went way over is it going to be
a brief one I told
you your task is to study price action
by back testing journaling old data and
then picking out in hindsight where
price did certain things
okay the next stage is for you to tape
read watching real price action so
Caleb's got to watch Nothing Live this
month he's got to go through old data
and collect it and show me what he sees
in price what it did and what that will
do is it gives him a foundation of
identifying Baseline price action what
it genuinely and generically will
do the following month he will expect I
will expect him to watch price live when
we're doing the live streams and I'm
going to point out things before it
happens and tell you this is what you're
looking for this is what price should do
we don't want to see price do this and
then we do that for a full four weeks
after that month three I will be talking
about pushing the button and getting in
and getting over the fear of getting
into trades because that's a skill set
that you have to have so many people are
fear I was scared when I first started
trading I was scared to death I was
scared and I just started doing entries
just I just did it because I I needed to
get over it I was afraid as soon as I
put in the trade it was gonna do what
orang shoes option did to me took half
my money in one night so I had to I had
to coach myself through doing lots of
executions and I got that idea from
Larry
Williams He desensitized himself by
trading just taking trades and just he
didn't care just in in in in in and I
ended up doing that same thing so but I
had to develop things to get in on the
trades and over years of doing it I I
was fearful that I was going to pick the
wrong entry so I understand that what
you're trying to do is you're trying to
avoid the losing trade and you want the
perfect Precision entry with no draw
down it'll never even ever even imagine
coming close to your stop loss and
everything's going to be good and easy
and that's what I was trying to do
that's why I have 81 entry
mechanisms believe me it's not [__]
I have 81 ways to get into some kind of
a [__] trade I will get into it I'm
like a [__] burglar okay I can break
into any one of these [__] trades and
rob their ass I can do it
but not all of them are equal in its
its ability to take as much out it's
available the higher up on the spectrum
of that price run whether it be premium
or or equilibrium it it will determine
how much you can yield from
it but I can be in there which is why
when I pyramid and I build larger
positions all of that's done with having
a greater understanding that came from
me doing this for years seeing it these
these candlesticks are not doing
anything anything different than they
did when they were doing it in
1992 think about that price is not doing
anything differently today than it did
before I was
born and I'll be 52
tomorrow
52 and these markets I have charts that
are predated my birth and they still do
the same
stuff they do the same stuff
the only difference is it's much more
cleaner to see and identify because we
have 24-hour
markets well 23 hour markets because the
indices stopped trading for an
hour but it's it's become very clean
which makes it easier and if they ever
take away the new week opening Gap I'm
sorry the new day opening Gap like say
say they take it away and say okay it's
going to be 24 hours trading who gives a
[__] I don't need that because we have
new week open gaps and we have relative
equal highs and relative equal lows like
you're worried about things that's going
to be no problem at all so while you
have these advantages why aren't you
using
them all the time and energy you're
spending worrying about it's going to
stop working you know they said that
same stuff when I was on baby Pips oh
this is going to stop working because
he's teaching it if you believe that how
many years has it
been 14
years so you're going to wait around 14
years to see if you're right about it
going to stop working instead of using
it and making money and bettering your
life and your family and preparing
yourself for what's
coming look around folks on Twitter I've
said all kinds of stuff was going to be
mad house we're in it now look what's
going on over
UK look at
Bangladesh look what's going to happen
in the Middle East here
soon and all that stuff is going to be
in all of our lives and
worse and in November we'll see what we
get here in the
states there's a lot of stuff coming
folks
and it's not meant to rush you it's not
meant to panic you but you know I'm
doing what I
can there's too many of you to dull out
money to you that doesn't fix anything
so if I can teach you how to fish and
give you a peace of mind knowing that
you know even if you make your your
groceries every year every month you
know what you spend on
food that's a blessing that is a
blessing
and my hope is that you'll do well with
this and you can help somebody else that
can't do it if they can't meet their
bills and you just help them if I can
give that that mindset to all of you and
just 10% of you do
that man what a what a blessing that is
that gives what I'm doing here a a
deeper sense of of
value you think that it's just you that
needs to make the money I'm hoping to
change the way you think about
money I want you to think of it as a
tool that yeah you can make it you can
make more of it anytime you want but do
having it in the bank or leasing
Lamborghinis and McLarens all that
[__] that that is trash all that
stuff nobody cares about it and after a
while nobody cares about and then it
makes it feel worse because you have it
still and nobody cares about it but when
you help somebody else and you give
somebody a helping hand with hey look
you know I could see these these people
they can't make their their rent they
can't they can't feed their family or
they may lose their job maybe made
redundant the economy is getting ready
you know to tear everybody up and just
because we have millions of dollars in
the upper percentage of uh everyone you
know like myself I'm in the upper class
classification of IND
I'm not
poor but I'm going to feel it just like
everybody else will I have to